# Iron

This is extension of my Master's thesis work and not a peer-reviewed publication at any journal. You are welcomed to use, build up on/improve this potential for your specific needs. This ADP is slightly improved version of the one developed in Master's thesis (ADP1). The ADP is fitted to elastic constants and surface energies of (100), (110), (111) and (112) in addition to the E(V) curves which formed the fitting database of ADP1. The configurations in the database are generated by using ELK FP-LAPW DFT calulations.  

  There are different DFT methods being used for electronic structure calculations of materials namely pseudopotential method, augmented planewave (APW) method, full-potential linear augmented planewave method, APW+local orbital method. Owing to its accuracy in magnetic bulk structures, the elk-code\cite{dewhurst2016elk} which uses FP-LAPW method has been used for all the calculations mentioned in this work. The structural information of iron is obtained from the crystallographic information files (CIF) provided in material database of Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany\cite{hellenbrandt2004inorganic}. These CIFs are converted to elk-readable format using "spacegroup" utility of elk. The $E(V)$ curve calculations are performed on body-centred cubic (bcc), face-centred cubic (fcc), hexagonal close-packed (hcp) iron structures. Non-magnetic (NM), ferromagnetic (FM), anti-ferromagnetic (AFM) behaviour of iron is observed in each of these crystal structures through collinear magnetic calculations. For fcc-AFM structure, seven configurations of the local atomic magnetic moments are considered. The structures have conventional unit cell or its multiple (supercell (1,1,2)) unless mentioned otherwise. Table 1 provides the information on spacegroup and wyckoff positions in bcc, fcc, hcp structures of iron.
